# GEOG5990M
In this project, the power of Python’s data-science and GIS libraries (Pandas, NumPy, GeoPandas, Matplotlib, Seaborn, and scikit-learn) is utilised to derive health-vulnerability clusters that will directly inform the equitable allocation of health‐service resources. By combining publicly available geographic boundaries (e.g., census Output Areas, administrative zones) with demographic and socio-economic indicators from UK census data 2011, we can classify neighborhoods into meaningful “geodemographic” segments—each with distinct vulnerability profiles. K-means clustering was utlisied to perform the classification. The output of the analysis is also included in the folder like a spatial and a non-spatial visualisation file. According to the cluster domain overview the domain classes were assigned as 'Vulnerable Age Group with Health Challenges', 'Occupationa; Health Risk Families', 'Overcrowed and Communal Living' and 'Disadvantaged Familis' for cluster 0 to 3, respectively. From the output, it is evident that most of the area falls under "Occupational Health Risk Families". The 'Vulnerable Age Group with Health Challenges'class is scattered all over the area on the other hand 'Overcrowded and Communal Living'and 'Disadvantaged Families' classes exist in the central zone of the area. Recommendations from the project output-
1. Mobile clinics in 'Vulnerable Age Group with Health Challenges'.
2. Outreach to 'Disadvantaged Families'.
3. Occupational screenings for 'Occupational Health-Risk Families.
4. Housing improvement initiatives in 'Overcrowded and Communal Living'.
